[CSE3081(2반)] 알고리즘 설계와 분석

2020학년도 2학기 강의자료

(2020.11.10 화요일)

### [주제 5] Greedy Methods

### Algorithm Design Techniques

- Divide-and-Conquer Method
- Dynamic Programming Method
- Greedy Method
- Backtracking Method
- Local Search Method
- Branch-and-Bound Method
- Etc.

#### The Greedy Method

- A technique to follow the problem-solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage.
- Strategy
  - Make the choice that appears best at each moment!
  - It is hoped to arrive at a globally optimal solution by making a locally optimal choice.
- Pros and cons
  - [ref](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greedy_algorithm)
  - Simple and straightforward to design an algorithm.
  - Does not guarantee the optimal solution to all problems 
    - Local maximum versus global maximum

#### Huffman Coding

- Data compression
  - Data compression can save storage space for files.
  - Huffman coding is just one of many data compression techniques.
- Problem
  - Given a file, find a binary character code for the characters in the file, which represents the file in the least number of bits.
- Example
  - Original text file: ababcbbbc
  - Huffman codes:a=10,b=0,c=11 → Compressed file: 1001001100011
  - Is it possible to have a code set where a = 01, b = 0, and c = 11?

#### Prefix Codes

- No codeword can be a prefix of any other code.
  - Otherwise, decoding is impossible! 
  - Uniquely decodable!
    - ☺ Example 1
    - a = 00, b = 1110, c = 110, d = 01, e = 1111, f = 10
    - Example 2
    - a = 00, b = 1100, c = 110, d = 01, e = 1111, f = 10

- Binary trees corresponding to prefix codes
  - The code of a character c is the label of the path from the root to c.
  - Decoding of an encoded file is trivial.

- Problem
  - Given a file *F* to be encoded with a character set $$V = \{v_1, v_2, ..., v_n \}$$  , find an optimal prefix binary code with a corresponding binary tree *T* that minimizes the cost function where *freq*(*v**i*) is the number of times *v**i* occurs in *F*, and *depth*(*v**i*) is the depth *v**i* of in *T*.
  - A Greedy approach successfully finds an optimal code.

#### Huffman’s Algorithm 

- Idea
  - Put the rarest characters at the bottom of the tree.

- A greedy approach
  - Repeat the following until only one tree is left:
    1. Start from a set of single node trees.
    2. Pick up two trees u and v with the lowest frequencies.
    3. Merge them by adding a root node w where the frequency of the new node is the sum of those of u and v.
    4. Replace u and v by w.

#### Implementation and Time Complexity 

- Implementation issues
  - How can you manage a dynamic set to which the following operations occur frequently:
    - Delete the elements with the highest priority from the list. 
    - Insert an element with some priority into the list.
    - The answer is to use Priority Queue.
  - The priority queue can be implemented in many ways. Which one would you use?

| Representation        | Insertion    | Deletion     |
| --------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| Unordered array       | *O*(1)       | *O*(*n*)     |
| Unordered linked list | *O*(1)       | *O*(*n*)     |
| Sorted array          | *O*(*n*)     | *O*(1)       |
| Sorted linked list    | *O*(*n*)     | *O*(1)       |
| Heap                  | *O*(log *n*) | *O*(log *n*) |

- ✓ The answer is to use the priority queue based on (min) heap.

  ```c++
  typedef struct _node
  {
      char symbol;
      int freq;
      struct _node *left;
      struct _node *right;
  } NODE;
  NODE *u, *v, *w;
  
  for (i = 1; i <= n; i++)
  {
  /* insert the n single-node trees */ }
  for (i = 1; i <= n - 1; i++)
  {
      u = PQ_delete();
      v = PQ_delete();
      w = make_a_new_node();
      w->left = u;
      w->right = v;
      w->freq = u->freq + v->freq;
      PQ_insert(w);
  }
  w = PQ_delete();
  /* w points to the optimal tree. */
  ```

  → $$O (nlogn)$$ time

#### Correctness of the Huffman’s Algorithm

- siblings, branch
- **(Proof by mathematical induction)** 
  - If the set of trees obtained in the *i-*th step are branches in a binary tree corresponding to an optimal code, then the set of trees obtained in the (*i*+1)st step are also branches in a binary tree corresponding to an optimal code.
  - Optimal binary tree
  - i-th step
  - (i+1)-th step
  - – **(Base step)** When *k* = 0, each tree is trivially a branch of an optimal tree.
  - – **(Induction step)** Suppose that the proposition is true when *k* = *i*, that *S* is the set of trees that exist after the *i*th step, and that *T* is the corresponding optimal tree. Let *u* and *v* be the root of the trees combined in the (*i*+1)st step. 
  - **Case 1:** If *u* and *v* are siblings in *T*, we are done.
  - **Case 2:** Otherwise, assume that *u* is at a level in *T* at least as low as *v*, and that *w* is the *u*’s sibling in *T*.
    - The branch in *T* with root *w* is one of the trees in *S* or contains one of those trees as a subtree.why?
    - Therefore, *freq*(*w*) ≥ *freq*(*v*) and *depth*(*w*) ≥ *depth*(*v*) in *T*
    - If we create a new tree *T’* by swapping the two branches with root *v* and *w,* then *bits*(*T’*) *= bits(T) +* (*depth*(*w*) *–* *depth*(*v*))***(*freq*(*v*) *–* *freq*(*w*)) ≤ *bits*(*T*)*.*
    - Since *bits*(*T*) ≤ *bits*(*T’*)*, T’* is also optimal. Hence, the proposition also holds when *k* = *i*+1.  What happens if all the steps are done?

#### Maximum Non-overlapping Intervals

- Problem
- Example
