12-2

2020.11.19 목요일

- Two ways of implementing the Union Operation

  - **Time complexity:** *O*(*n*) 1
  - **Time complexity:** *O*(log *n*)

- **Union by rank**

  - Always attach the smaller tree to the root of the larger tree.
  - The **rank** increases by one only if two trees of the same rank are merged.
    - The rank of a one-element tree is zero.
  - The Union and Find operations can be done in O(log n) in the worst case.
    - The number of elements in a tree of rank r is at least 2 . (Proof by induction)
    - The maximum possible rank of a tree with n elements is O(log n).

- S = Find(x)

  - Time complexity: O(depth of x in the tree)

    ```c++
    Find(x) {
    if (x == parent(x))
    return x else
    return Find(parent(x)) }
    Find(x) {
    while (x != parent(x))
        x := parent(x)
      return x
    }
    ```

- Union(x, y)

  - **Time complexity:** 2 Find op’s *+ O* (1)

    ```c++
    Union(x, y) { x0 := Find(x) y0 := Find(y) if (x0 == y0)
    return
    if (rank(x0) > rank(y0))
      parent(y0) := x0
      else
    parent(x0) := y0
    if (rank(x0) == rank(y0))
    }
    rank(y0) := rank(y0)+1
    ```

    

- Disjoint set의 path compression 연산에 대해서도 알아볼 것.

#### Scheduling with Deadlines

- Problem
  - Let *J* = {1, 2, ..., *n*} be a set of jobs to be served. – Each job takes one unit of time to finish.
  - Each job has a deadline and a profit.
    - If the job starts before or at its deadline, the profit is obtained.
  - Schedule the jobs so as to maximize the total profit (not all jobs have to be scheduled).

- Example:

| Schedule | Total Profit |
| -------- | ------------ |
| [1, 3]   | 30 + 25 = 55 |
| [2, 1]   | 35 + 30 = 65 |
| [2, 3]   | 35 + 25 = 60 |
| [3, 1]   | 25 + 30 = 55 |
| [4, 1]   | ☞ 40+30=70   |
| [4, 3]   | 40 + 25 = 65 |

| Job  | Deadline | Profit |
| ---- | -------- | ------ |
| 1    | 2        | 30     |
| 2    | 1        | 35     |
| 3    | 2        | 25     |
| 4    | 1        | 40     |

#### Another Algorithm Based on Disjoint Sets

- Method

  - $$d_{max}$$ : the maximum of the deadlines for *n* jobs.

  - Add a job as late as possible to the schedule being built, but no later than its deadline.

    

  - Sort the jobs in non-increasing order by profit.

  - Initialize $$d_{max}+1$$ disjoint sets, containing the integers $$0, 1, 2, ..., d_{max}$$

  - For each job in the sorted order,

    - Find the set *S* containing the minimum of its deadline and *n*.
      - If small(*S*) = 0, reject the job.
      - Otherwise, schedule it at time small(*S*), and merge *S* with the set containing small(*S*)-1.

- Time complexity
  - $$O(n log m)$$ for the disjoint set manipulation, where *m* is the minimum of $$n$$ and $$d_{max}$$
  - $$O(nlogn$$) for sorting the profits.

- Example

| Job   | Deadline | Profit |
| ----- | -------- | ------ |
| **1** | **1**    | 100    |
| **2** | **6**    | 80     |
| **3** | **3**    | 90     |
| **4** | **3**    | 120    |
| **5** | **5**    | 40     |
| **6** | **4**    | 105    |
| **7** | **1**    | 115    |
| **8** | **2**    | 85     |
| **9** | **4**    | 50     |

#### Another Algorithm Based on Disjoint Sets

- Method

  - $$d_{max}$$ : the maximum of the deadlines for *n* jobs.

  - Add a job as late as possible to the schedule being built, but no later than its deadline.

     

  - Sort the jobs in non-increasing order by profit.

  - Initialize $$d_{max}+1$$ disjoint sets, containing the integers $$0, 1, 2, ..., d_{max}$$

  - For each job in the sorted order,

    - Find the set *S* containing the minimum of its deadline and *n*.
      - If small(*S*) = 0, reject the job.
      - Otherwise, schedule it at time small(*S*), and merge *S* with the set containing small(*S*)-1.

- Time complexity
  - $$O(n log m)$$ for the disjoint set manipulation, where *m* is the minimum of *n* and $$d_{max}$$
  - $$O(n log n)$$ for sorting the profits.

### [주제 6] Graph Algorithms

#### Basic Things to Know about Graph as a CSE Undergraduate

- Definitions and representations
- Graph traversal algorithms
  - –  Depth-first search
  - –  Breadth-first search
- Connectivity
  - –  Simple connectivity
  - –  Strong connectivity
  - –  Biconnectivity
  - –  Transitive closure
- Biconnected component algorithms
- Shortest path algorithm
  - –  All-pairs shortest path algorithm
  - –  Single-source shortest path algorithm
- Minimum spanning tree algorithm
  - –  Prim’s minimum spanning tree algorithm
  - –  Kruskal’s minimum spanning tree algorithm

#### Definitions

- An (*undirected*, *simple*) *graph* *G* is defined to be a pair of (*V*, *E*) , where *V* is a non-empty finite set of elements called *vertices*, and *E* is a finite set of unordered pairs of distinct elements of *V* called edges.
  - *G* = (*V*, *E*) = (*V*(*G*), *E*(*G*))
  - Graphs that allow loops and multiple edges are often called a *general graphs*.
- A (*simple*) *digraph* *D* is defined to be a pair (*V*, *A*), where *V* is a non-empty finite set of elements called *vertices*, and *A* is a finite set of ordered pairs of distinct elements of *V* called (*directed*) *edges* or (*directed*) *arcs*.
- A *weighted graph* is a graph in which a number, called the *weight*, is assigned to each edge.

$$V = \{ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 \}$$
$$ E = \{ (1, 2), (1, 5), (2, 3), (2, 5), (3, 4), (4, 5), (4, 6) \}$$

From Wikipedia

- A *subgraph* of a graph *G* is simply a graph, all of whose vertices belong to *V*(*G*) and all of whose edges belong to *E*(*G*).

- Adjacency and incidence
  - Two vertices *v* and *w* of a graph *G* are said to be *adjacent* if there is an edge joining them.
  - Two distinct edges of *G* are *adjacent* if they have at least one vertex in common.
  - The vertices *v* and *w* are then said to be *incident* to such an edge.
  - The *degree* of a vertex *v* of *G* is the number of edges incident to *v*.

- **Walk, trail, circuit, path, and cycle**

  - A *walk* (or *edge-sequence*) is an alternating sequence of vertices and edges, starting and ending at a vertex, in which each edge is adjacent in the sequence to its two endpoints.

  - The *length* of a walk is the number of edges in it.

  - A *trail* is a walk in which all the edges are distinct from one another.

  - A walk is *closed* if it starts and ends at the same vertex.

  - A *circuit* is a trail that is closed.

  - A *path* is a walk in which all the vertices are distinct from one another.

  - A *cycle* is a path containing at least one edge with an exception that the first and last vertices coincide.

    > The definitions differ by various textbooks!!!

  - An Eulerian trail is a trail that visits every edge exactly once.

  - An Eulerian circuit is an Eulerian trail that starts and ends on the same vertex.

  - A Hamiltonian path is a path that visits each vertex exactly once. 

  - A Hamiltonian cycle is a Hamiltonian path that is a cycle.

    -  An Eulerian circuit exists in a connected graph G if the degree of every vertex is even, and can be found in O(|E|) time.
    - Determining whether such paths and cycles exist in graphs is the Hamiltonian path problem, which is NP-complete.

  

|                   | Walk        | Trail      | Circuit    | Path       | Cycle      |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Openness          | Open/Closed | Open       | Closed     | Open       | Closed     |
| Vertex repetition | Allowed     | Allowed    | Allowed    | Disallowed | Disallowed |
| Edge repetition   | Allowed     | Disallowed | Disallowed | Disallowed | Disallowed |

- Examples of graphs
  - A *null graph* is a graph whose edge-set is empty.
  - A *regular graph* is a graph in which each vertex has the same degree.
  - A *complete graph* is a graph in which each pair of vertices is joined by an edge.
  - A *bipartite graph* is a graph in which its vertex set can be partitioned into two sets *V*1 and *V*2, in such a way that every edge of the graph joins a vertex of *V*1 to a vertex of *V*2.
  - A *connected graph* is an undirected graph, in which, given any pair of vertices *v* and *w*, there is a path from *v* to *w*.
     • An arbitrary graph can split up into disjoint connected subgraphs called *connected* *components*.
  - A *tree* is a connected graph with no cycles.
  - A *forest* is a graph with no cycles.

- Graph isomorphism
  - Two graphs *G*1 and *G*2 are *isomorphic* if there is a one-to-one correspondence between the vertices of *G*1 and those of *G*2 with the property that the number of edges joining any two vertices of *G*1 is equal to the number of edges joining the corresponding vertices of *G*2.

#### Graph Representation 1: Adjacency List

In mathematics

#### Graph Representation 2: Adjacency Matrix

In mathematics

```c++
for int A[3][5];
  A[i][j]
= *(A[i] + j)
= (*(A + i))[j]
= *((*(A + i)) + j)
= *(&A[0][0] + 5*i + j)
```

- In C

- Various Costs for a Graph G = (V, E) 



| --                        | Adjacency list | Adjacency matrix           |
| ------------------------- | -------------- | -------------------------- |
| Space                     | $$O(|V|+|E|)$$ | $$O(|V|^2)$$               |
| Initialize empty          | $$O(|V|)$$     | $$O(|V|^2)$$               |
| Copy after initialization | $$O(|E|)$$     | $$O(|V|^2)$$               |
| Destroy                   | $$O(|E|)$$     | $$O(|V|)$$ or $$O(1)$$     |
| Insert vertex u           | $$O(1)$$       | $$O(|V|)$$ or $$O(|V|^2)$$ |
| Insert Edge (u,v)         | $$O(1)$$       | $$O(1)$$                   |
| Remove vertex u           | $$O(|E|)$$     | $$O(|V|^2)$$               |
| Find/Remove edge (u,v)    | $$O(|V|)$$     | $$O(1)$$                   |
| Are u, v adjacent?        | $$O(|V|)$$     | $$O(1)$$                   |

|                         | Adjacency list | Adjacency matrix |
| ----------------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| Is v isolated?          | $$O(1)$$       | $$O(|V|)$$       |
| find a path from u to v | $$O(|V|+|E|)$$ | $$O(|V|^2)$$     |

