13-2

2020.11.26 목요일

#### Minimum Spanning Trees

- Tree
  - A tree is a connected graph T that contains no cycle. 
  - Other equivalent statements (T = (V, E) where |V| = n)
  - T contains no cycles, and has n-1 edges.
  - T is connected, and has n-1 edges.
  - Any two vertices of T are connected by exactly one path.
  - T contains no cycles, but the addition of any new edge creates exactly one cycle.

- Forest
  - A forest is a graph with no cycles.

- references
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/tree
  - https://www.mathreference.org/

- Buy-Two-Get-One-Free Theorem
  - For a graph G = (V, E) with n vertices, any two of the following three properties imply the third one:
    1. G is connected. 
    2. G is acyclic.
    3. G has n-1 edges.

- Minimum spanning tree
  - [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_spanning_tree)
  - A spanning tree for a graph G = (V, E) is a tree that contains all the vertices of G.
  - The cost of a spanning tree of a weighted graph G = (V, E) is the sum of the weights of the edges in the spanning tree.
  - A minimum spanning tree for a weighted graph G = (V, E) is a spanning tree of least cost.

- Problem
  - Given a weighted graph G = (V, E), find a minimum spanning tree of G.

- A naïve approach
  - Examine all the spanning trees of G,and take one having least cost.
  - There are nn-2 spanning trees in Kn!

#### Kruskal’s Algorithm vs Prim’s Algorithm (Greedy!)

- > ref. Courtesy of T. Cormen et al.

- Kruskal’s algorithm

  - In each step, find and add an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the (current) forest.

- Prim’s algorithm

  - In each step, find and add an edge of the least possible weight that connects the (current) tree to a non-tree vertex.

#### Generic MST Algorithm and its Correctness

- Generic algorithm for a graph G = (V, E) with a weight function w
  - For an edge set A that is a subset of some MST, an edge (u, v) is called a safe edge for A if A  {(u, v)} is also a subset of some MST.
  - Loop invariant for a set of edges A
     • Prior to each iteration, A is a subset of some minimum spanning tree.

```c++
Generic-MST(G) {
    A := empty; 
    // A: a set of edges of G 
    While (A does not form a spanning tree) {
        Find and edge (u, v) that is safe for A;
        A := A  {(u, v)}; 
    }
}
```

- Some definitions

  > Courtesy of T. Cormen et al.
  -  A cut (S, V-S) of G is a partition of V.
  - An edge (u, v) of G crosses a cut (S, V-S) if u  S and v  V-S→cut-set.
  - A cut respects a set A of edges if no edge in A crosses the cut.
  - An edge is a light edge crossing a cut if its weight is the minimum of any edge crossing the cut.

#### Cut Property

- For any cut C of the graph, if the weight of an edge e in the cut-set of C is strictly smaller than the weights of all other edges of the cut-set of C, then this edge belongs to all MSTs of the graph.

- Proof: 
  - Assume that there is an MST $$T$$ that does not contain e. 
  - Adding $$e$$ to $$T$$ will produce a cycle, that crosses the cut once at e and crosses back at another edge $$e' $$. 
  - Deleting e' we get a spanning tree $$T∖{e'}∪{e}$$ of strictly smaller weight than $$T$$. This contradicts the assumption that T was a MST.
- By a similar argument, if more than one edge is of minimum weight across a cut, then each such edge is contained in some minimum spanning tree.

```c++
Generic-MST(G) {
	A := empty; 
	// A: a set of edges of G 
  While (A does not form a spanning tree) {
    Find and edge (u, v) that is safe for A;
    A := A ∪  { (u, v) }; 
  }
}
```

- Loop invariant for the set A
  - Prior to each iteration, A is a subset of some minimum spanning tree.

- Theorem
  - Let G = (V, E) be a connected, undirected graph with a real-valued weight function w defined on E. Let A be a set of E that is included in some minimum spanning tree for G, let (S, V-S) be any cut of G that respects A, and let (u, v) be a light edge crossing (S, V-S). Then, edge (u, v) is safe for A.

#### Selection of Next Edge: Kruskal’s Algorithm

- In each step, find and add an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the (current) forest.

```c++
Generic-MST(G) {
  A := empty; 
  // A: a set of edges of G 
  While (A does not form a spanning tree) {
    Find and edge (u, v) that is safe for A;
    A := A ∪ { (u, v) }; 
  }
}
```

- Theorem
  - Let G = (V, E) be a connected, undirected graph with a real-valued weight function w defined on E. Let A be a set of E that is included in some minimum spanning tree for G, let (S, V-S) be any cut of G that respects A, and let (u, v) be a light edge crossing (S, V-S). Then, edge (u, v) is safe for A.

#### Selection of Next Edge: Prim’s Algorithm

- In each step, find and add an edge of the least possible weight that connects the (current) tree to a non-tree vertex.

```c++
Generic-MST(G) {
  A := empty; // A: a set of edges of G 
  While (A does not form a spanning tree) {
    Find and edge (u, v) that is safe for A;
    A := A ∪ { (u, v) }; }
}
```

- Theorem
  - Let G = (V, E) be a connected, undirected graph with a real-valued weight function w defined on E. Let A be a set of E that is included in some minimum spanning tree for G, let (S, V-S) be any cut of G that respects A, and let (u, v) be a light edge crossing (S, V-S). Then, edge (u, v) is safe for A.
