15 - 1

2020.12.08 화요일

### [주제 6] Graph Algorithms

#### Shortest-Paths Problems

- https://datascience.lc/2019/10/26/shortest-path-dijkstra-algorithm/
- Single-source shortest-paths problem
  - Dijkstra’s algorithm
    - Only nonnegative-weight edges are present.
  - Bellman-Ford algorithm
    - Negative-weight edges may be present, but there are no negative-weight cycles.
- Single-destination shortest-paths problem
- Singe-pair shortest-path problem
- All-pairs shortest-paths problem 
  - Floyd-Warshall algorithm
    - Negative-weight edges may be present, but there are no negative-weight cycles.
  - Johnson’s algorithm for sparse graphs
    - Negative-weight edges may be present, but there are no negative-weight cycles.

- The optimal-substructure property of shortest paths 
  - Subpaths of shortest paths are shortest paths!

#### Single-Source Shortest Path 

- Problem
  - Given a weighted directed graph G = (V, E) with a weighting function w(e) (w(e) ≥ 0 for the edges in G), and a source vertex v0, find a shortest path from v0 to each of the remaining vertices of G.

- Note
  - The case of an undirected graph can be handled by simply replacing each undirected edge e = (u, v) of length w(e) by two directed edges (u, v) and (v, u), each of the same length.
  - Only the case of a directed graph whose weights are positive (or nonnegative) is handled by the Dijkstra’s algorithm. For a graph that allows a negative weight, the Bellman-Ford algorithm is one to be used.
  - Before learning the single-source shortest path algorithm that builds some tree, recall how the breadth first search tries to build a BFS tree.
  - A breadth first search tree
  - A tree built by the Dijkstra’s algorithm

#### Dijkstra’s Single-Source Shortest Path Algorithm

- A greedy approach
  - Generate the shortest paths in non-decreasing order of lengths!

1. $$S^1=\{ v_0 \} $$로 설정하고 시작.
2. ($$i=k$$일 때) $$S^k$$의 꼭지점들만 사용할 경우에 대한 $$v_0$$에서 $$v$$까지의 shortest path가 구해져 있음. ($$v$$는 $$S^k$$의 꼭지점)
3. $$S^k$$상황에서 가장 짧은 path에 대한 꼭지점 $$v$$를 $$S^k$$로 옮긴 후 적절한 처리를 수행 → $$S^{k+1}$$
4. ($$i = k+1$$일 때) $$S^{k+1}$$ 의 꼭지점들만 사용할 경우에 대한 $$v_0$$에서 $$v$$까지의 shortest path가 구해져 있음. ($$v$$는 $$S^{k+1}$$의 꼭지점)
   - 다시 2. 로 감

5. Sn이 다 구해졌을 경우

#### From Prof. Kenji Ikeda's Home Page

#### Dijkstra’s Algorithm 

- (from Introduction to Algorithms by T. Cormen)

- A directed graph with nonnegative weight $$G(V, E)$$ with $$w: E→ [0,∞)$$ and source $$s$$

- Two components for each vertex $$v$$

  - $$v.d$$: an upper bound on the weight of a shortest path from s to v (a shortest path estimate)

  - $$v.π$$: the predecessor of v in the (current) shortest path

    ```markdown
    Initialize-Single-Source(G,s)
    for each vertex v in G.V
    	v.d = infinite
    	v.pi = NIL
    s.d = 0
    ```

- Relaxation

  - The process of relaxing an edge (u, v) consists of testing whether we can improve the shortest path to v found so far by going through u and, if so, updating v.d and v.π.

    ```markdown
    Relax(u,v,w)
    if v.d > u.d + w(u,v)
    	v.d = u.d + w(u,v)
    	v.pi = u
    ```

    - 아직 shortest path를 찾지 못한 vertex v에 대해
    - 새롭게 선택된 vertex u에 adjacent한 vertex v에 대해

- Dijkstra’s algorithm

  - Maintains a set S of vertices whose final shortest-path weight from the source s have already been determined.

    1. Select repeatedly the vertex u in V-S with the minimum shortest-path estimate
    2. 2. adds u to S, and 3. relaxes all edges leaving u.

    ```markdown
    Dijkstra(G,w,s)
    Initialize-Single-Source(G,s)
    S = zero-set
    Q = G.V
    while Q != zero-set
    	u= extract-min(Q)
    	S= S U {u}
    	for each vertex v in G.Adj[u]
    		Relax(u,v,w)
    ```

  - When the algorithm adds a vertex u to the set S, u.d is the final shortest-path weight from s to u.

