3-2

2020학년도 2학기 강의자료

(2020.09.17 목요일)



#### Mathematical Induction & Proof of Correctness • Proof by induction

- Proof of correctness: MSS (1D)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction

### [주제 2] Heap-based Priority Queues and Heap Sort (Review)

#### A Variety of Priority Queue Implementations

- [Priority Queue 1: Max(Min) Heap]
- [Priority Queue 2: Min-Max Heap]
- [Priority Queue 3: Heap and Hashing]
- [Priority Queue 4: Deap]
- [Priority Queue 5: Leftist Tree]
- [Priority Queue 6: Binomial Heap]
- [Priority Queue 7: Fibonacci Heap]

#### [Job Scheduling Example: Priority Queue]

- Consider the following sequence of requests in an operating system:

8134 kim 32 8137 kim 15 8138 jpark 24 8142 root 58 8244 ihm 45 8246 jpark 44 8251 root 34 8252 root 58 8255 sylee 21 8256 root 58 8261 jpark 58 8262 kim 32 8264 bhchoi 8 8267 root 58 8268 root 30 8269 root 58 8271 ihm 47

[photo]

##### Requirement 1

- CPU executes the process with the highest priority first.
- Use a heap structure – a simple max heap. 

```c++
- typedef struct _process {

int proc_id; char *owner; int priority;

} Process;
 static Process *_proc_heap; static int _proc_heap_size = 0; static int _proc_heap_ptr = 0;
 int PH_create(int n);
         int PH_full();
         int PH_empty();
         int PH_insert(Process item);
         int PH_delete(Process *item);
```

##### Requirement 2

- The priority of processes can be modified after they are placed in the priority queue.

  ```c++
  int H_change_priority(int proc_id, int new_priority);
  ```

  - This function requires locating a particular process in the heap, but the basic heap operations provide no efficient way to do it.

  - Employ an auxiliary data structure such as a hash table that keeps track of the location of each process in the heap structure.

- Once the two requirements are satisfied, the operating system can process the following basic commands efficiently:

  ```
         INSERT  <proc_id>  <owner>  <priority>
         DELETE
         CHANGEPR <proc_id> <new_priority> PRINTHEAP
   END
  ```

#### Priority Queue 1: Max(Min) Heap

- [Horowitz 5.6.2] [Neapolitan 7.6]
- Problem
- The following operations must be performed as mixed in data processing:
  - Store a record with a key in an arbitrary order. 
  - Fetch the record with the current largest key.
- A solution: Design a data structure that offers an efficient implementation of the following operations:
- Insert an element with an arbitrary key. – Delete an element with the largest key.

#### An Array Implementation

[Sedgewick 9.2]

```c++
void PQinit();
 int PQempty();
 void PQinsert(int); int PQdelmin(); void PQdec(int) -----
 \#include <stdlib.h> static int *pq; static int N; #define MAX_N 10000; void PQinit() {

pq = malloc(MAX_N*sizeof(int));

N = 0; }
int PQempty() {
   return N == 0;
   }
   void PQinsert(int v) {
   pq[N++] = v;
   }

int PQdelmin() {
 int j, min = 0;
 for (j = 1; j < N; j++)

if (less(pq[min], pq[j])) min = j;

 exch(pq[min], pq[N-1]);
    return pq[--N];
}

int less(int i, int j) { return **...** ;

}
 void exch(int i, int j) {

... }

void PQdec(int k) {
   ...

}


```

- What will be the worst-case time complexity of each operation?

#### Max(Min) Heap: Definitions 

##### Definition 1

- [Horowitz 5.6.2] [Neapolitan 7.6]
- A max(min) heap is a complete binary tree where the key value in each internal node is no smaller(larger) than the key values in its children.

##### Definition 2

- A binary tree has the max(min) heap property if and only if
  - The number of nodes of the tree is either 0 or 1, or
  - 2 For the tree that has at least two nodes, the key in the root is no smaller(larger) than that in each child and the subtree rooted at the child has the max(min) heap property.
- A max(min) heap is a complete binary tree that has the max(min) heap property.

#### Brainstorming on Max Heap Operations

- Max Heap Example Deletion Example 1